.\" manual page [] for Bareos
.\" SH section heading
.\" SS subsection heading
.\" LP paragraph
.\" IP indented paragraph
.\" TP hanging label
.TH BAREOS 8 "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.SH NAME
Bareos \- Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos-dir \- Director
.br
.B bareos-fd \- File daemon or Client
.br
.B bareos-sd \- Storage daemon
.br
.B bconsole \- Console to control Bareos
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Bareos is a set of computer programs that permits you (or the
system administrator) to manage backup, recovery, and
verification of computer data across a network of computers of
different kinds.  In technical terms, it is a network
Client/Server based backup program.  Bareos is relatively easy to
use and efficient, while offering many advanced storage
management features that make it easy to find and recover lost or
damaged files.  Due to its modular design, Bareos is scalable
from small single computer systems to systems consisting of
hundreds of computers located over a large network.

.LP
Bareos Director service consists of the program that supervises
all the backup, restore, verify and archive operations.  The
system administrator uses the Bareos Director to schedule backups
and to recover files. The Director runs as a daemon or a service
(i.e. in the background).

.LP
Bareos Console services is the program that allows the
administrator or user to communicate with the Bareos Director.

.LP
Bareos File services (or Client program) is the software program
that is installed on the machine to be backed up.  It is specific
to the operating system on which it runs and is responsible for
providing the file attributes and data when requested by the
Director.  The File services are also responsible for the file
system dependent part of restoring the file attributes and data
during a recovery operation.
This program runs as a daemon on the machine to be backed up, and
in some of the documentation, the File daemon is referred to as
the Client (for example in Bareos's configuration file).

.LP
Bareos Storage services consist of the software programs that
perform the storage and recovery of the file attributes and data
to the physical backup media or volumes.  In other words, the
Storage daemon is responsible for reading and writing your tapes
(or other storage media, e.g.  files).
The Storage services runs as a daemon on the machine that
has the backup device.

.LP
Catalog services are comprised of the software programs
responsible for maintaining the file indexes and volume databases
for all files backed up.  The Catalog services permit the System
Administrator or user to quickly locate and restore any desired
file.  The Catalog services sets Bareos apart from simple backup
programs like tar and bru, because the catalog maintains a record
of all Volumes used, all Jobs run, and all Files saved,
permitting efficient restoration and Volume management.  Bareos
supports multiple databases (e.g. MySQL, PostgreSQL, ...).

.SH CONFIGURATION
Each daemon has its own configuration file which must be
tailored for each particular installation.  Please see the HTML/PDF
documentation for the details.

.SH SEE ALSO
<http://www.bareos.org>
.br
<http://doc.bareos.org>

.SH BUGS
See <http://bugs.bareos.org>

.SH AUTHOR
Kern Sibbald
.SS Contributors
An enormous list of past and former persons who have devoted
their time and energy to this project -- thanks. See the AUTHORS
file in the main Bareos source directory.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Bareos is distributed under a modified AGPL version 3.0, as described in the
file LICENSE included with the source distribution.
