.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BAREOS\-SD 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bareos\-fd
\- Bareos's File Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos\-fd
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bareos
command.
.br
Bareos's File Daemon acts as the interface between the Bareos
network backup system and the filesystems to be backed up: it is
responsible for reading/writing/verifying the files to be
backup'd/verified/restored. Network transfer can optionally be
compressed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b
Enable backup only mode
.TP
.BI \-c\   path
Specify the configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-f
Run in foreground (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-g\  group
Set the group/gid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-k
Keep readall permission when dropping privileges.
.TP
.BI \-m
Print kaboom output (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-r
Enable restore only mode
.TP
.BI \-s
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-t
Test the configuration file and report errors.
.TP
.BI \-u\  user
Set the username/uid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-v
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos\-dir (8),
.BR bareos\-sd (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon <jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
