.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BAREOS\-DIR 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bareos\-dir
\- Bareos Director
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos\-dir
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bareos\-dir
command.
.br
Bareos's Director Daemon acts as the controller of the
network backup system: it is responsible for scheduling and
coordinating backups across the network.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  file
Specify the configuration file to use.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-f
Run in foreground (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-g\  group
Set the group/gid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-m
Print kaboom output (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-r\  job
Run <job>.
.TP
.BI \-s
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-t
Test the configuration file and report errors.
.TP
.BI \-u\  user
Set the username/uid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-v
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.SH TCP-WRAPPERS CONFIGURATION
Tcpwrappers looks for the service name of the bareos daemons in
.I hosts.allow
, and the service names of these daemons is configured to be different from the
binary.
The service names are configured to be
.B %hostname%-%component%
rather than
.B bareos-dir
(As defined in the bareos-dir.conf.in file)


So the hosts.allow entry has to match
.B %hostname%-%component%
(servername-dir for example) instead of bareos-%component%

.B WARNING:
This means that if the hosts.allow file has the entry:

.B bareos-dir: ALL

you will not be able to run bconsole to connect to the local director!

The entry would have to read:

.B server-dir: ALL

and this will allow the console to connect to the director.
(The process running is bareos-dir.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos-fd (8),
.BR bareos-sd (8).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
