.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BLS 8 "26 November 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
 bls \- Bareos's 'Volume LS'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bls
.RI [ options ]
.I <device\-name>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bls
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.BI \-b\  bootstrap
Specify a bootstrap file.
.TP
.BI \-c\  path
Specify the Storage configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output
.TP
.BI \-e\ <file>
Specify exclude list file.
.TP
.BI \-i\  <file>
Specify include list file.
.TP
.BI \-j
List jobs.
.TP
.BI \-k
List blocks.
.TP
.I (no \-j or \-k option)
List saved files
.TP
.BI -L
Dump label.
.TP
.BI \-p
Proceed in spite of errors.
.TP
.BI \-V\  volumes
Specify volume names (separated by '|').
.TP
.B \-v
Set verbose mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bscan (8),
.BR bextract (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
