.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BREGEX 1 "30 October 2011" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
 bregex \- Bareos's 'regex' engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bregex
.RI [ options ]
.I -f <data\-file>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bregex
command.
.br
This program can be useful for testing regex expressions to be applied against a list of filenames.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output
.TP
.BI \-f\ <data\-file>
The data-file is a filename that contains lines of data to be matched (or not)
against one or more patterns. When the program is run, it will prompt you for a
regular expression pattern, then apply it one line at a time against the data in
the file. Each line that matches will be printed preceded by its line number.
You will then be prompted again for another pattern.
.TP
.BI \-n
Print lines that do not match
.TP
.BI \-l
Suppress lines numbers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR regex(7)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Bruno Friedmann
.nh
<bruno@ioda\-net.ch>.
