.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BSCAN 8 "26 November 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Network backup, recovery and verification"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 bscan \- Bacula's 'Scan tape'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bscan
.RI [ options ]
.I bacula-archive
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The purpose of bscan is to read (scan) a Bacula Volume and to recreate
or update the database contents with the information found on the Volume.
This is done in a non-destructive way. This permits restoring database
entries that have been lost by pruning, purging, deleting, or a database
corruption problem.        
 
.LP
Normally, it should not be necessary to run the bscan command because
the database is self maintaining, and most corrupted databases can be
repaired by the tools provided by the database vendors.
In addition, if you have maintained bootstrap files during backups, you
should be able to recover all your data from the bootstrap file    
without needed an up to date catalog.

.B bscan
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.BI \-b\  bootstrap
Specify a bootstrap file.
.TP
.BI \-c\  config
Specify configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.B \-m
Update media info in database.
.TP
.B \-D
Specify the driver database name (default: \fINULL\fP)
.TP
.BI \-n\  name
Specify the database name (default: \fIbacula\fP)
.TP
.BI \-u\  username
Specify database username (default: \fIbacula\fP)
.TP
.BI \-P\  password
Specify database password (default: \fInone\fP)
.TP
.BI \-h\  host
Specify database host (default: \fINULL\fP)
.TP
.BI \-t\  port
Specify database port (default: 0)
.TP
.B \-p
Proceed in spite of I/O errors.
.TP
.B \-r
List records.
.TP
.B \-s
Synchronize or store in Database.
.TP
.B \-S
Show scan progress periodically.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose output mode.
.TP
.BI \-V\  volume
Specify volume names (separated by '|')
.TP
.BI \-w\  dir
Specify working directory (default from conf file)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bls (8),
.BR bextract (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh 
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
 
