.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BSCRYPTO 8 "23 February 2013" "Marco van Wieringen" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 bscrypto \- Bareos's 'SCSI Crypto'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bscrypto
.RI [ options ]
.I device_name
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The purpose of bscrypto is to be a standalone tool for manipulating the
SCSI Crypto framework using the SCSI SPIN/SPOUT security pages. This tool
allows you to perform standalone crypto operations that are normally
performed by the
.B scsicrypto-sd.so
plugin in the storage daemon.

.LP
You also need bscrypto tool to to the initial setup of things like
.B Key Encryption Keys
in the
.B bareos-sd.conf
and
.B bareos-dir.conf

.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.B \-b
Perform base64 encoding of keydata. Any binary data is base64 encoded
and as such converted to normal ASCII.
.TP
.B \-c
Clear encryption key. Clear the encryption key currently loaded on the
drive by issuing a SCSI SPOUT clear key page.
.TP
.B \-D <cachefile>
Dump the content of given cachefile
.TP
.B \-d <nn>
Set debug level to <nn>
.TP
.B \-e
Show drive encryption status. Request the current drive encryption status
by issuing a SCSI SPIN cmd requesting the SPIN_DATA_ENCR_STATUS_PAGE.
.TP
.B \-g <keyfile>
Generate new encryption passphrase in keyfile. A passphrase is generated
from random data and is ASCII only.
.TP
.B \-k <keyfile>
Show content of keyfile. If the data is wrapped using a so called
.B Key Encryption Key
you also need the
.B \-b
flag to base64 decode the data that is wrapped using the algorithm described
in RFC3394 which gives binary output.
.TP
.B \-p <cachefile>
Populate given cachefile with crypto keys
.TP
.B \-r <cachefile>
Reset expiry time for entries of given cachefile
.TP
.B \-s <keyfile>
Set encryption key loaded from keyfile. Load the new key from the keyfile
and load it into the drives crypto buffer using a SCSI SPOUT command.
.TP
.B \-v
Show volume encryption status. Request the current volume encryption status
by issuing a SCSI SPIN cmd requesting the SPIN_NEXT_BLOCK_ENCR_STATUS_PAGE.
.TP
.B \-w <keyfile>
Wrap/Unwrap the key using RFC3394 aes-(un)wrap using the key in keyfile as a
.B Key Encryption Key
After wrapping the data using this option the output is binary so you may want
to use the
.B \-b
flag to base64 encode this data.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos-sd (8),
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Marco van Wieringen
.nh
<marco.van.wieringen@bareos.com>
