.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BWILD 1 "30 October 2011" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
 bwild \- Bareos's 'wildcard' engine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bwild
.RI [ options ]
.I -f <data\-file>
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bwild
command.
.br
This is a simple program that will allow you to test wild-card expressions against a file of data.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output
.TP
.BI \-f\ <data\-file>
The data-file is a filename that contains lines of data to be matched (or not) against one
or more patterns. When the program is run, it will prompt you for a wild-card pattern,
then apply it one line at a time against the data in the file. Each line that matches will
be printed preceded by its line number. You will then be prompted again for another pattern.
.br
Enter an empty line for a pattern to terminate the program. You can print only lines that
do not match by using the \-n option, and you can suppress printing of line numbers with the \-l option.
.TP
.BI \-n
Print lines that do not match
.TP
.BI \-l
Suppress lines numbers.
.TP
.BI \-i
use case insensitive match.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fnmatch(3)
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Bruno Friedmann
.nh
<bruno@ioda\-net.ch>.
