.. _StoredConfChapter:

Storage Daemon Configuration
============================

:index:`\ <single: Configuration>`\  :index:`\ <single: Storage Daemon; Configuration>`\  :index:`\ <single: Configuration; Storage Daemon>`\ 

The |sd| configuration file has relatively few resource definitions. However, due to the great variation in backup media and system capabilities, the storage daemon must be highly configurable. As a consequence, there are quite a large number of directives in the Device Resource definition that allow you to define all the characteristics of your Storage device (normally a tape drive). Fortunately, with modern storage devices, the defaults are sufficient, and very few directives
are actually needed.

For a general discussion of configuration file and resources including the data types recognized by Bareos, please see the :ref:`Configuration <ConfigureChapter>` chapter of this manual. The following Storage Resource definitions must be defined:

-  :ref:`Storage <StorageResourceStorage>` – to define the name of the Storage daemon.

-  :ref:`Director <StorageResourceDirector>` – to define the Director’s name and his access password.

-  :ref:`Device <StorageResourceDevice>` – to define the characteristics of your storage device (tape drive).

-  :ref:`Messages <MessagesChapter>` – to define where error and information messages are to be sent.

Following resources are optional:

-  :ref:`StorageResourceAutochanger` – to define Autochanger devices.

-  :ref:`StorageResourceNDMP` – to define the NDMP authentication context.

.. _StorageResourceStorage:

Storage Resource
----------------

:index:`\ <single: Resource; Storage>`\  :index:`\ <single: Storage; Resource>`\ 

In general, the properties specified under the Storage resource define global properties of the Storage daemon. Each Storage daemon configuration file must have one and only one Storage resource definition.

.. include:: /include/autogenerated/bareos-sd-resource-storage-description.rst.inc

The following is a typical Storage daemon storage resource definition.

.. code-block:: bareosconfig
   :caption: Storage daemon storage definition

   #
   # "Global" Storage daemon configuration specifications appear
   # under the Storage resource.
   #
   Storage {
     Name = "Storage daemon"
     Address = localhost
   }

.. _StorageResourceDirector:

Director Resource
-----------------

:index:`\ <single: Resource; Director>`
:index:`\ <single: Director; Resource>`

The Director resource specifies the Name of the Director which is permitted to use the services of the Storage daemon. There may be multiple Director resources. The Director Name and Password must match the corresponding values in the Director’s configuration file.

.. include:: /include/autogenerated/bareos-sd-resource-director-description.rst.inc

The following is an example of a valid Director resource definition:

.. code-block:: bareosconfig
   :caption: Storage daemon Director definition

   Director {
     Name = MainDirector
     Password = my_secret_password
   }

.. _NDMPResource:

.. _StorageResourceNDMP:

NDMP Resource
-------------

:index:`\ <single: Resource; NDMP>`
:index:`\ <single: NDMP; Resource>`

The NDMP Resource specifies the authentication details of each NDMP client. There may be multiple NDMP resources for a single Storage daemon. In general, the properties specified within the NDMP resource are specific to one client.

.. include:: /include/autogenerated/bareos-sd-resource-ndmp-description.rst.inc


.. _StorageResourceDevice:

Device Resource
---------------

:index:`\ <single: Resource; Device>`
:index:`\ <single: Device; Resource>`

The Device Resource specifies the details of each device (normally a tape drive) that can be used by the Storage daemon. There may be multiple Device resources for a single Storage daemon. In general, the properties specified within the Device resource are specific to the Device.

.. include:: /include/autogenerated/bareos-sd-resource-device-description.rst.inc

.. _mountcodes:

Edit Codes for Mount and Unmount Directives
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:index:`\ <single: Edit Codes for Mount and Unmount Directives>`
:index:`\ <single: Mount and Unmount: use variables in directives>`

Before submitting the Mount Command, or Unmount Command directives to the operating system, Bareos performs character substitution of the following characters:



::

       %% = %
       %a = Archive device name
       %e = erase (set if cannot mount and first part)
       %n = part number
       %m = mount point
       %v = last part name (i.e. filename)



Devices that require a mount (USB)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:index:`\ <single: Devices that require a mount (USB)>`\

:config:option:`sd/device/RequiresMount`
   You must set this directive to :strong:`yes` for removable devices such as
   USB unless they are automounted, and to :strong:`no` for all other devices
   (tapes/files).  This directive indicates if the device requires to be
   mounted to be read, and if it must be written in a special way.  If it
   set, :config:option:`sd/device/MountPoint`\ , 
   :config:option:`sd/device/MountCommand`\  and 
   :config:option:`sd/device/UnmountCommand`\ 
   directives must also be defined.

:config:option:`sd/device/MountPoint`
   Directory where the device can be mounted.

:config:option:`sd/device/MountCommand`
   Command that must be executed to mount the device. Before the command is
   executed, \%a is replaced with the Archive Device, and \%m with the Mount
   Point.

   Most frequently, you will define it as follows:

   .. code-block:: bareosconfig

      Mount Command = "/bin/mount -t iso9660 -o ro %a %m"


   For some media, you may need multiple commands.  If so, it is recommended
   that you use a shell script instead of putting them all into the Mount
   Command.  For example, instead of this:

   .. code-block:: bareosconfig
   
      Mount Command = "/usr/local/bin/mymount"

   Where that script contains:

   .. code-block:: sh
   
      #!/bin/sh
      ndasadmin enable -s 1 -o w
      sleep 2
      mount /dev/ndas-00323794-0p1 /backup


   Similar consideration should be given to all other Command parameters.

:config:option:`sd/device/UnmountCommand`
   Command that must be executed to unmount the device. Before the command  is
   executed, \%a is replaced with the Archive Device, and \%m with the  Mount
   Point.

   Most frequently, you will define it as follows:

   .. code-block:: bareosconfig
   
      Unmount Command = "/bin/umount %m"


   If you need to specify multiple commands, create a shell script.


.. _AutochangerRes:

.. _StorageResourceAutochanger:
   
Autochanger Resource
--------------------

:index:`\ <single: Autochanger Resource>`
:index:`\ <single: Resource; Autochanger>`

The Autochanger resource supports single or multiple drive autochangers by grouping one or more Device resources into one unit called an autochanger in Bareos (often referred to as a "tape library" by autochanger manufacturers).

.. include:: /include/autogenerated/bareos-sd-resource-autochanger-description.rst.inc

The following is an example of a valid Autochanger resource definition:

.. code-block:: bareosconfig
   :caption: Autochanger Configuration Example

   Autochanger {
     Name = "DDS-4-changer"
     Device = DDS-4-1, DDS-4-2, DDS-4-3
     Changer Device = /dev/sg0
     Changer Command = "/usr/lib/bareos/scripts/mtx-changer %c %o %S %a %d"
   }
   Device {
     Name = "DDS-4-1"
     Drive Index = 0
     Autochanger = yes
     ...
   }
   Device {
     Name = "DDS-4-2"
     Drive Index = 1
     Autochanger = yes
     ...
   Device {
     Name = "DDS-4-3"
     Drive Index = 2
     Autochanger = yes
     Autoselect = no
     ...
   }

Please note that it is important to include the :config:option:`sd/device/Autochanger = yes`\  directive in each device definition that belongs to an Autochanger. A device definition should not belong to more than one Autochanger resource.

Also, your :config:option:`dir/storage/Device`\  must refer to the Autochanger’s resource name rather than a name of one of the Devices.

For details refer to the :ref:`AutochangersChapter` chapter.

.. _MessagesResource1:

Messages Resource
-----------------

:index:`\ <single: Resource; Messages>`\  :index:`\ <single: Messages; Resource>`\ 

For a description of the Messages Resource, please see the :ref:`MessagesChapter` chapter of this manual.  

