.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BTAPE 8 "26 November 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 btape \- Bareos's Tape interface test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btape
.RI [ options ]
.I device-name
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B btape
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-?
Show summary of options and commands.
.TP
.BI \-b\  bootstrap
Specify a bootstrap file.
.TP
.BI \-c\  path
Specify the Storage configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-p
Proceed inspite of I/O errors.
.TP
.B \-s
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-v
Set verbose mode.
.sp 3
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B autochanger
test autochanger
.TP
.B bsf
backspace file
.TP
.B bsr
backspace record
.TP
.B cap
list device capabilities
.TP
.B clear
clear tape errors
.TP
.B eod
go to end of Bareos data for append
.TP
.B eom
go to the physical end of medium
.TP
.B fill
fill tape, write onto second volume
.TP
.B unfill
read filled tape
.TP
.B fsf
forward space a file
.TP
.B fsr
forward space a record
.TP
.B help
print this reference
.TP
.B label
write a Bareos label to the tape
.TP
.B load
load a tape
.TP
.B quit
quit btape
.TP
.B rawfill
use write() to fill tape
.TP
.B readlabel
read and print the Bareos tape label
.TP
.B rectest
test record handling functions
.TP
.B rewind
rewind the tape
.TP
.B scan
read() tape block by block to EOT and report
.TP
.B scanblocks
Bareos read block by block to EOT and report
.TP
.B status
print tape status
.TP
.B test
General test Bareos tape functions
.TP
.B weof
write an EOF on the tape
.TP
.B wr
write a single Bareos block
.TP
.B rr
read a single record
.TP
.B rb
read a single bareos block
.TP
.B qfill
quick fill command
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bscan (1),
.BR bextract (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
