Bareos WebUI Translation
========================

### Where do I find the translation files?

All translation files are located in module/Application/language.

### How should I edit translation files?

For editing *.po files, we recommend poedit. You can download poedit from http://www.poedit.org/ ,
or simply install it from your distributions package repository if available.

### How to refresh webui.pot file, when some strings have been added, modified or removed from source files?

Run the shellscript modules/Application/language/update-pot.sh, which updates the webui.pot file.

### How to update an existing *.po file, when some strings have been added, modified or removed from source files?

After updating the webui.pot, see above run the shellscript modules/Application/language/update-po.sh, which updates your selected lang_LANG.po file.

Example: ./update-po.sh de_DE.po

### How do I add a new translation into language xyz?

Open webui.pot with poedit and choose from the dialog popup into which language you want to translate. You should also edit the relevant meta information on top. After you are done with translation, save the new file to xyz_XYZ.po and send us your patch by mail to gatekeeper@bareos.com or do a pull request on GitHub. If you are not familiar with git you can also send your edited *.po file by mail. The *.mo files will be generated by our build service, so no need to generate them by yourself and send them in.

### Where can I find further information?

See https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/index.html for more on how gettext works.

### What if my questions are not answered in this document?

Do not be afraid to ask them on our mailinglist, bareos-devel@googlegroups.com .
