Bareos WebUI Translation
========================

### Where do I find the translation files?

File for translation are located in module/Application/language and public/js/locale.

### How should I edit translation files?

For editing *.po files, we recommend poedit. You can download poedit from http://www.poedit.org/ ,
or simply install it from your distributions package repository if available.

### How to refresh webui.pot file, when some strings have been added, modified or removed from source files?

Execute './configure' and run 'make update-pot' in module/Application/language, which updates the webui.pot file.
Also you need to update public/js/local/webui-datatables.pot, run 'make update-pot' in
public/js/locale to achieve that.

### How to update an existing *.po file, when some strings have been added, modified or removed from source files?

After updating the webui.pot, please see above, run e.g. 'make update-po PO=en_EN.po' in module/Application/language, which updates your given lang_LANG.po file and merges changes from webui.pot. Use the same procedure for the po files located in public/js/local, take care of the subdirectories, run e.g. 'make update-po PO=en_EN/LC_MESSAGES/en_EN.po'.

### How do I add a new translation into language xyz?

Open webui.pot with poedit and choose from the dialog popup into which language you want to translate. You should also edit the relevant meta information on top. After you are done with translation, save the new file to xyz_XYZ.po and send us your patch by mail to gatekeeper@bareos.com or do a pull request on GitHub. If you are not familiar with git you can also send your edited *.po file by mail. The *.mo files will be generated by our build service, so no need to generate them by yourself and send them in. Do the analog for the files in public/js/locale.

### Where can I find further information?

See https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/index.html for more on how gettext works.

### What if my questions are not answered in this document?

Do not be afraid to ask them on our mailinglist, bareos-devel@googlegroups.com .
