.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BAREOS\-FD 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bareos\-fd
\- Bareos's File Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos\-fd
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bareos
command.
.br
Bareos's File Daemon acts as the interface between the Bareos
network backup system and the filesystems to be backed up: it is
responsible for reading/writing/verifying the files to be
backup'd/verified/restored. Network transfer can optionally be
compressed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b,--backup-only
Enable backup only mode
.TP
.BI \-c,--config\  path
Specify the configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d,--debug-level\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \--dt,--debug-timestamps
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-f,--foreground
Run in foreground (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-g,--group\  group
Set the group/gid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-k,keep-readall
Keep readall permission when dropping privileges.
.TP
.BI \-m,--print-kaboom
Print kaboom output (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-p,--pid-file\  file
Specify the full path to the pidfile.
.TP
.BI \-r,--restore-only
Enable restore only mode
.TP
.BI \-s,--no-signals
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-t,--test-config
Test the configuration file and report errors.
.TP
.BI \-u,--user\  user
Set the username/uid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-v,--verbose
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \--xc,--export-config
Print configuration and exit.
.TP
.BI \--xs,--export-schema
Print configuration schema in JSON format and exit.
.TP
.BI \-h,--help,-?
Show version and usage of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos\-dir (8),
.BR bareos\-sd (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon <jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
