.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BAREOS\-DIR 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bareos\-dir
\- Bareos Director
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos\-dir
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bareos\-dir
command.
.br
Bareos's Director Daemon acts as the controller of the
network backup system: it is responsible for scheduling and
coordinating backups across the network.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\  path
Specify the configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-f
Run in foreground (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-g\  group
Set the group/gid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-m
Print kaboom output (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-r\  job
Run <job>.
.TP
.BI \-s
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-t
Test the configuration and report errors.
.TP
.BI \-u\  user
Set the username/uid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-v
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-?
Show version and usage of program.
.SH TCP-WRAPPERS CONFIGURATION
Tcpwrappers looks for the service name of the bareos daemons in
.I hosts.allow
The service names are not the names of the binaries, but the configured names of the components, often %hostname%-%component%.

So the hosts.allow entry has to match
.B %hostname%-%component%
(servername-dir for example) instead of bareos-%component%

.B WARNING:

This means that if the hosts.allow file has the entry:

.B bareos-dir: ALL

you will not be able to run bconsole to connect to the local director!

The entry would have to read:

.B server-dir: ALL

and this will allow the console to connect to the director.
(The process running is bareos-dir.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos-fd (8),
.BR bareos-sd (8).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
