.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BAREOS\-SD 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
.B bareos\-sd
\- Bareos's Storage Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bareos\-sd
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B bareos\-sd
command.
.br
Bareos's Storage Daemon acts as the interface between the Bareos
network backup system and a tape drive/autochanger or filesystem where
the backups will be stored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c,--config\  path
Specify the configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d,--debug-level\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \--dt,--debug-timestamps
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-f,--foreground
Run in foreground (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-g,--group\  group
Set the group/gid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-i,--ignore-io-errors
Ignore I/O errors.
.TP
.BI \-m,--print-kaboom
Print kaboom output (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-p,--pid-file\  path
Specify the full path to the pidfile.
.TP
.BI \-s,--no-signals
No signals (for debugging).
.TP
.B \-t,--test-config
Test the configuration file and report errors.
.TP
.BI \-u,--user\  user
Set the username/uid to run as.
.TP
.BI \-v,--verbose
Set verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \--xc,--export-config
Print configuration and exit.
.TP
.BI \--xs,--export-schema
Print configuration schema in JSON format and exit.
.TP
.B \-h,--help,-?
Show version and usage of program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bareos\-dir (8),
.BR bareos\-fd (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>.
