.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH bpluginfo "8" "July 2012" "bpluginfo" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
bpluginfo \- Bareos Plugin information utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bplufinfo
.RI [ options ]
.I plugin_filename.so
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The main purpose of
.B bpluginfo
is to display different information about Bareos plugin. You can use it to
check a plugin name, author, license and short description. You can use
.B \-f
option to display API implemented by the plugin. Some plugins may require
additional '-a' option for validating a Bareos Daemons API. In most cases it
is not required.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h
Show usage of the program.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose information printing all available data from the plugin, including
plugin header and implemented API.
.TP
.BI \-i
Display short information from plugin header only. This is a default option.
Option incompatible with
.B \-f
option.
.TP
.BI \-f
Display information about implemented API functions.
.TP
.BI \-a\ <api>
You can supply the plugin initialization function with a particular Bareos
API number. Without this option a default API number is '1'. Option require
a numeric argument.
.SH RETURN CODE
.BR bpluginfo
returns 0 on success, and non-zero on error.
.TP
You can check return code to find what was a cause of the error.
 * 0 - success
 * 1 - cannot load a plugin
 * 2 - cannot find a loadPlugin function
 * 3 - cannot find an unloadPlugin function
 * 10 - not enough memory
.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
This is an example of bplufinfo usage with verbose option (-v) and default plugin.
.LP
.sp
.RS
.nf

\fB$ bpluginfo -v /usr/lib/bareos/plugins/python-fd.so

Plugin type:            Bareos File Daemon plugin
Plugin magic:           *FDPluginData*
Plugin version:         2
Plugin release date:    October 2013
Plugin author:          Marco van Wieringen
Plugin licence:         Bareos AGPLv3
Plugin description:     Python File Daemon Plugin
Plugin API version:     8
Plugin usage:
python:module_path=<path-to-python-modules>:module_name=<python-module-to-load>:...

Plugin functions:
 newPlugin()
 freePlugin()
 getPluginValue()
 setPluginValue()
 handlePluginEvent()
 startBackupFile()
 endBackupFile()
 startRestoreFile()
 endRestoreFile()
 pluginIO()
 createFile()
 setFileAttributes()
 checkFile()
.fi
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Radoslaw Korzeniewski (c) Inteos Sp. z o.o.
.SH BUGS
Does not handle all required Bareos functions callbacks which can lead to
utility crash.
.\".SH TODO"

.PP

.PP

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <support@inteos.pl>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2012 Free Software Foundation Europe e.V.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bareos-dir,
.BR bareos-sd,
.BR bareos-fd,
.BR "Bareos Plugins API"
