.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BSCAN 8 "26 November 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 bscan \- Bareos's 'Scan volumes'
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bscan
.RI [ options ]
.I bareos-archive
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The purpose of bscan is to read (scan) a Bareos Volume and to recreate
or update the database contents with the information found on the Volume.
This is done in a non-destructive way. This permits restoring database
entries that have been lost by pruning, purging, deleting, or a database
corruption problem.

.LP
Normally, it should not be necessary to run the bscan command because
the database is self maintaining.
Logical inconsistencies in the Bareos database can be found by bareos-dbcheck.
In addition, if you have maintained bootstrap files during backups, you
should be able to recover all your data from the bootstrap file
without needed an up to date catalog.

.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h,--help,-?
Show version and usage of program.
.TP
.BI \-B,--dbdriver\  drivername
Specify the database driver name (default NULL) <postgresql|mysql>.
.TP
.BI \-b,--parse-bootstrap\  bootstrap
Specify a bootstrap file.
.TP
.BI \-c,--config\  path
Specify the Storage configuration file or directory to use.
.TP
.BI \-d,--debug-level\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt,--debug-timestamps
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.BI \-D.--director\  director
Specify a director name specified in the storage daemon configuration file for the Key Encryption Key selection.
.TP
.BI \-a,--backend-directory\  directory
Specify the database backend directory
.TP
.B \-m,--update-volume-info
Update media info in database.
.TP
.BI \-n,--dbname\  name
Specify the database name (default: \fIbareos\fP)
.TP
.BI \-u,--dbuser\  username
Specify database username (default: \fIbareos\fP)
.TP
.BI \-P,--dbpassword\  password
Specify database password (default: \fInone\fP)
.TP
.BI \-o,--dbhost\  host
Specify database host (default: \fINULL\fP)
.TP
.BI \-t,--dbport\  port
Specify database port (default: 0)
.TP
.B \-p,--proceed-io
Proceed in spite of I/O errors.
.TP
.B \-r,--list-records
List records.
.TP
.B \-s,--update-db
Synchronize or store in database.
.TP
.B \-S,--show-progress
Show scan progress periodically.
.TP
.B \-v,--verbose
Verbose output mode.
.TP
.BI \-V,--volumes\  volumes
Specify volume names (separated by '|')
.TP
.BI \-w,--working-directory\  directory
Specify working directory (default from configuration file)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bls (8),
.BR bextract (8),
.BR bareos-dbcheck (8).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
