.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BSMTP 1 "3 July 2012" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 bsmtp \- Bareos's SMTP client (mail submission program)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bsmtp
.RI [ options ]
.I <recipient> <...>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bsmtp
is a simple mail user agent designed to permit more flexibility
than the standard mail programs typically found on Unix systems, and to
ease portability. It can even run on Windows machines. It is used
by the Director daemon to send notifications and requests to the
operator.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-4
Forces bsmtp to use IPv4 addresses only.
.TP
.B \-6
Forces bsmtp to use IPv6 addresses only.
.TP
.B \-8
Encode the mail in UTF-8.
.TP
.B \-a
Use any ip protocol for address resolution.
.TP
.B \-c
Set the \fBCc:\fR header.
.TP
.BI \-d\  nn
Set debug level to \fInn\fP.
.TP
.BI \-dt
Print timestamp in debug output.
.TP
.B \-f
Set the \fBFrom:\fR header. If not specified,
.B bsmtp
will try to use your username.
.TP
.BI \-h\  mailhost:port
Use mailhost:port as the SMTP server. (default port: 25)
.TP
.B \-s
Set the \fBSubject:\fR header.
.TP
.B \-r
Set the \fBReply-To:\fR: header.
.TP
.B \-l
Set the maximum number of lines to be sent. (default: unlimited)
.TP
.B \-?
Show version and usage of program.

.SH USAGE
\fIrecipients\fR is a space separated list of email addresses.

The body of the email message is read from standard input. Message is
ended by sending the EOF character (Ctrl-D on many systems) on the
start of a new line, much like many 'mail' commands.

The actual, automated behavior of \fBbsmtp\fR will depend on the
mail-related configuration of the Director in the \fIMessages\fR resources.

Interactive use of \fBbsmtp\fR is pertinent to manually test and ensure these
configuration bits are valid. This is highly recommended.

.SH CONFIGURATION
These commands should each appear on a single line in the configuration
file.

Messages {
  Name = Standard
  mailcommand = "/usr/bin/bsmtp \-h mail.domain.com \-f \\"\\(Bareos\\) \\<%r\\>\\"
                           \-s \\"Bareos: %t %e of %c %l\\" %r"
  operatorcommand = "/usr/bin/bsmtp \-h mail.domain.com \-f \\"\\(Bareos\\) \\<%r\\>\\"
                                 \-s \\"Bareos: Intervention needed for %j\\" %r"
  mail = sysadmin@site.domain.com = all, !skipped
  operator = sysop@site.domain.com = mount
  console = all, !skipped, !saved
 }

mail.domain.com is replaced with the fully qualified name of an SMTP server, which usually listen on port 25.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
If the \fB-h\fR option is not specified, \fBbsmtp\fR will use environment variable \fBSMTPSERVER\fR, or 'localhost' if not set.

.SH NOTES
Since \fBbsmtp\fR always uses a TCP connection rather than writing to a
spool file, you may find that your \fBFrom:\fR address is being rejected
because it does not contain a valid domain, or because your
message has gotten caught in spam filtering rules. Generally, you
should specify a fully qualified domain name in the from field, and
depending on whether your SMTP gateway is Exim or Sendmail, you may
need to modify the syntax of the from part of the message.

If \fBbsmtp\fR cannot connect to the specified mail host, it will retry
to connect to \fBlocalhost\fR.

.SH BUGS
If you are getting incorrect dates (e.g. 1970) and you are
running with a non-English locale, you might try setting the
\fBLANG="en_US"\fR environment variable.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Jose Luis Tallon
.nh
<jltallon@adv\-solutions.net>, revised and edited by Lucas B. Cohen
.nh
<lbc@members.fsf.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "bareos-dir" "(8) "
