.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BTRACEBACK 8 "6 December 2009" "Kern Sibbald" "Backup Archiving REcovery Open Sourced"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
 btraceback \- wrapper script around gdb and bsmtp

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btraceback
.I /path/to/binary
.I pid

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbtraceback\fR is a wrapper shell script around the \fBgdb\fR debugger
(or \fBdbx\fR on Solaris systems) and \fBbsmtp\fR, provided for debugging purposes.

.SH USAGE
\fBbtraceback\fR is called by the exception handlers of the Bareos
daemons during a crash.  It can also be called interactively to view
the current state of the threads belonging to a process, but this is
not recommended unless you are trying to debug a problem (see below).

.SH NOTES
In order to work properly, debugging symbols must be available to the
debugger on the system, and gdb, or dbx (on Solaris systems) must be
available in the \fB$PATH\fR.

If the Director or Storage daemon runs under a non-root uid, you will
probably need to be modify the \fBbtraceback\fR script to elevate
privileges for the call to \fBgdb\fR/\fBdbx\fR, to ensure it has the proper
permissions to debug when called by the daemon.

Although Bareos's use of \fBbtraceback\fR within its exception handlers is
always safe, manual or interactive use of \fBbtraceback\fR is subject to the
same risks than live debugging of any program, which means it could cause
Bareos to crash under rare and abnormal circumstances.  Consequently we
do not recommend manual use of \fBbtraceback\fR in production environments
unless it is required for debugging a problem.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
\fBbtracback\fR relies on \fB$PATH\fR to find the debugger.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/bareos/btraceback
.RS
The script itself.
.RE
.TP
.I /usr/sbin/btraceback
.RS
symbolic link to \fI/usr/lib/bareos/btraceback\fR
.RE
.TP
.I /etc/bareos/scripts/btraceback.gdb
.RS
the GDB command batch used to output a stack trace
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Lucas B. Cohen
.nh
<lbc@members.fsf.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "bsmtp" "(1) "
